Azure App Service:

Auto scaling:

	1.	Scaling is the ability to quickly and easily increase or decrease the computation power of an IT solution or resource.

	2.	Increase of load i.e., varying incoming HTTP requests, on the web applications can be handled  
		with the help of auto scaling by ensuring other instances of VM's are made available 
		so that load gets distributed across.

	3.	The scale settings take only seconds to apply and affect all the apps in your App Service Plan.
	
	4.	No code change or redeployment is required for your application.

	5.	Basic app service plan provides scaling of up to 3 VM's manually.

	6.	Standard or higher app service plans will have auto scaling feature.

	7.	Scaling Out and Scaling In of infrastructure will be automatically triggered based on conditions or metric Ex: CPU percentage of the VM's.
	
	8.	The billing or cost of the app service plan depends on the number of compute machines that run in the background to support load on the web site.

Scaling Up/Vertical scaling: 

	Adding more resources like CPU, Memory and disk to increase more compute power and storage capacity on the VM's.

Scaling Out/Horizontal scaling: 
	
	Increase the number of VM instances that run your app.

Scaling In: 

	Decrease the number of VM instances that run your app.
	
Cool-down period:

	Cool down period is the amount of time to wait after a scale operation before scaling again.
	It allows the metrics to stabilize and avoids scaling more than once for the same condition.
	It applies to both scale-in and scale-out events.

Q: What is the difference between Vertical Scaling and Horizontal Scaling?

	Scaling up is adding further resources, like hard drives and memory to increase the computing capacity of physical servers where as 
	scaling out is adding more servers to spread the workload across more machines.
	
LAB:
====

Step-1:	Create a App service with Basic app service plan.
Step-2:	Deploy web application on to the app service.
Step-3:	Go to scale out and observe the configuration.
Step-4:	Go to app service plan and observe the metrics and graphs.
Step-5:	Go back to app service, select 'Scale up (App Service Plan)' and select 'Production' S1 app service plan.
		This step upgrades the app service plan which enables automatic scaling.
		Observe the 'Included features'.
Step-6:	Go to 'Scale out (App Service Plan)' and select 'Custom autoscale'.
Step-7:	Add a 'Scale rule' to scale out and another rule to scale in based on metric.
Step-8:	Set the instance limits and instance count. Click Save.
Step-9:	Play with deployed web application in the browser.
Step-10: Verify app service plan instances on the overview page.
Step-11: Observe the scale out 'Run history' for changes.




 